#File Upload Approach
A new file upload solution needs to be designed for the purpose of uploading the product selection file; however this solution needs to be robust and scalable as it is likely to be re-used throughout the product.

##General Notes
There are 4 common ways to upload data:

* Form submission - i.e.: enter content into a text area and submit
* Form file objects - i.e.: select a file and submit
* External plugins - i.e.: a flash or java application
* HTML 5 File API - i.e.: a modern cross browser API (supporting IE 11 onwards)

N.b. Only 3 & 4 support resumable file uploads.

There are 3 common ways to landing data in S3:

* Save via the AWS REST API
* Save via the AWS SDK API
* Submit data via a third party interface (ie: queue, lambda, external API)

##Concerns
* Security - whether or not the end point is encrypted and/or if the transmission mechanism can encrypt data on the fly
* Interruption - control over the upload process, including pausing and resuming. Ideally an upload can be pause and resumed on demand and resumed in the event of a disconnection
* Performance - upload speed and receiving penalty. A client should be able to upload as quickly as possible, without degrading the browser experience, ideally asynchronously, reporting the progress of an upload

## Our Options

Option 1: EvaporateJS + Signing

* Source code is mature and well coded
* High availability / performance as it’s backed by S3
* Difficult to retarget – this is an AWS-only solution
* Implementation appears straight forward (it is well documented), client tracks upload state/multi-part completion
* Supports IE 11 onwards with resuming (<http://caniuse.com/#feat=fileapi> / <http://caniuse.com/#feat=promises>)

Option 2: ResumableJs + WebAPI proxy + AWS SDK

* Easy to transparently re-target
* Can peak at actual data for validation purposes
* Not available / performance impact with large files as it consumes an API server/lambda
* Tricky implementation – must implement a circular buffer and multi-part upload state tracking
* Supports IE 11 onwards with resuming (<http://caniuse.com/#feat=fileapi> / <http://caniuse.com/#feat=promises>)

Given the lack of IE support below 11 owing to the File and Promise APIs, we may need a non-resumable WebAPI fallback that proxies the tradition HTML mime upload. Historically large uploads for old browsers have been better implemented in Flash/Java.

##Proposed Solution
Our proposed solution in the option 1 described above: EvaporateJS + Signing

Core issue identified being - S3 needs to generate a presigned URL - <http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/ShareObjectPreSignedURLDotNetSDK.html>

###High level plan 
1. Html5 upload control interrogates file and sends details to an api controller – filename/size/extension etc.
2. Controller takes details, stores details in the database.
3. Asks S3 to generate a presigned URL
4. Returns the presigned URL to the client along with AWS credentials needed to perform the upload.
5. Javascript uses these details to upload directly to S3 via angular wrapped evaporateJS - <https://github.com/TTLabs/EvaporateJS>

###Probable Tasks
####UI
* Make (or reuse) fancy UI file upload
* Logic to extract and post up the data to the controller api.
* Wrap evaportateJS for its resume chunking functionality
* Implement whatever S3 supports – progress updates, error handling etc.

####Service
* Create controller api to receive details – api/upload/presign – or similar
* Create service to take these details, store them in the database
* Create service to create S3 presigned url
* Create service to fetch AWS credentials
* Return details via the api

####Database
* Design schema for holding ‘uploads’ data in the database
* Make it happen

###Unknown if needed
Somewhere to hold the other required AWS credentials – or if these are fetched from AWS themselves on the fly.