# Sprint 5
## Demo Path

* On the scenario list I can see new information:
 * % accepted recommendation
 * % rejected recommendation
 * % revised recommendation
 * Total estimated profit
 * Total estimated sales
 * Average depth of markdown 
 * Total markdown cost (we will use accepted cost)
 * Estimated terminal Stock
* I navigate to the workspace and can revise recommendations:
 * As a user I have to choose revised values which make sense (the product does not yet handle incorrect revisions)
 * The application re-run the scenario for my revised data and I am presented back with updated information
* I navigate to the scenario creatino screean and I can upload a file of product Ids when creating scenario
* I run the scenario created with the upload file and verify only the specified products are included
* Sorting and filtering works on all columns (except the new ones mentioned above) of the scenario list and workspace

## Ticket List

List of stories addressed in this sprint:

[User Story 4374](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4374)
[User Story 4688](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4688) -
[User Story 4606](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4606) -
[User Story 4645](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4645) -
[User Story 4352](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4352) 

[User Story 4676](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4676) -
[User Story 4629](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4629) -
[User Story 4630](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4630) -
[User Story 4624](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4624) -
[User Story 4631](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4631)

[User Story 4628](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4628) -
[User Story 4627](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4627) -
[User Story 4626](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4626) -
[User Story 4625](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4625) -
[User Story 4695](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4695)

[User Story 4724](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4724) -
[User Story 4647](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4647) -
[User Story 4587](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4587) -
[User Story 4726](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4726)




## High Level Architecture

No architecture change in this sprint.

## Sequence Diagrams

The recommendation page sequence diagrams change to introduce revision capabilities:

to be included

## Description of change

### Recommendation Revision

[User Story 4374](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4374)

#### Overview


We'll add an API endpoint to tigger a revision loop for a single product

When the API is invoked, the API controller gathers necessary information - ie: previous recommendation, data from S3 etc - and calls a single calculation and uploads these results incrementing RevisionId.

Results will appear in the Recommendation and Recommendation Projection table with an incremented `revision_id`

##### Revise

Calculate additional Markdown Recommendations for a single product/schedule given 1 or more alternative price ladder values.

A price ladder is a series of incrementing discounts (i.e. 0.1, 0.2, 0.3 ... 0.9) where 0.1 is 10% off the Original Selling Price (OSP).

For example, given a recommendation with price ladder value depths 10 20 30, revise this to 20 30 40 or 50 60 70 etc, where each depth is equal to or greater than the previous.

* If a depth for each Markdown Event is specified, this corresponds to an exact schedule and price path. ie: given a recommendation of 10 20 40, revising to 10, 20, 50 equates to a scenario run of an specific 3 week schedule with specific depths.
* If the revision depths are sparse, this would equate to an exact schedule x price path value satisfying 'equal to or greater than'. ie: given 10 20 40, specifying 10 20 *, means that the following permutation will be calculated, 10 20 50, 10 20 60, 10 20 70, 10 20 80, 10 20 90

##### Constraints 

* There must be 1 or more depths.
* Cannot be all 0
* Each depth must be equal to or greater than the previous.
* The first valid price ladder value is equal to the current MD depth of a product. In other words, the difference between OSP and CSP indicates a 'current markdown depth'. If the current depth is 20% off, then all selectable depths must be 'equal to or greater than 20'.
* For the moment we'll constrain this to the 'nearest' price ladder value (i.e. 19.1% = 20%, 21.9 = 21%), in the future will be parameterised (e.g. nearest greatest, 21.6% = 25%).

##### Tasks

* Add RevisionId to WebApi RecommendationEntity and VmRecommendation
* Add RevisionId to RecommendationSummary and rank appropriately
* Add CurrentMarkdownDepth to Markdown.Function SmCalcRecommendation, and the WebApi RecommendationEntity and VmRecommendation

#### Not In Scope

For this sprint we will not handle any error condition occuring when there are no recommendation. If the user selects values which prevent us to generate a recommendation, the behavior will be unpredictable and potentially ugly.

#### REST API

	POST /api/recommendation/{recommendationGuid}/revise
  
#### REST Data Model

	POST 
	{
	   "revisions": [{
		"week": number,
   		"discount": number?
	   }]
	}

	RETURN VmRecommendation

	VmRecommendation {
		..
		"revisionId": number,
		"currentMarkdownDepth": number,
		"priceLadderId": number
		..
	}
  
#### Architecture Changes

None

#### DB Data Model

* RecommendationEntity - RevisionId (integer), CurrentMarkdownDepth
* RecommendationSummary - RevisionId (integer) and rank appropriately

#### High Level .Net Code Changes


Markdown.Function
* SmCalcRecommendation - CurrentMarkdownDepth

### Price Ladder

[User Story 4688](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4688)

#### Overview

Create a API to expose Price Ladder Values to the front end

#### REST API

	GET /api/priceladder/{priceLadderId}
  
#### REST Data Model

	RETURN VmPriceLadder {
	   "priceLadderId": number,
	   "priceLadderTypeId": number,
	   "description": string,
	   "values": number[]
	}

	VmRecommendation {
		...
		"priceLadderId": number
		...
	}
  
#### Architecture Changes

None

#### DB Data Model

None

#### Class Diagram

None

### ETL Process

[User Story 4606](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4606) -
[User Story 4645](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4645) -
[User Story 4352](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4352) 

#### Overview

The approach of the project is that we are building a generic product. The ETL process is therefore split into two parts; the generic ETL and the customer specific work. The latter is not part of the project, however for existing customers we will need to build this for onboarding.

#### Step 1 - Port customer data to generic format

As decribed in the following ticket, we propose to use Amazon Kinesis Firehose to pull the input data and map to the new 
format. We will need to land the data into some form of database (possibly DynamoDB) in order to perform aggregation, followed by an extract to the generic file format as described in the ETL documentation.

Generic ETL file formats:

<https://deloitteproducts.deloitteanalytics.co.uk/wiki/display/MAR/ETL+Mappings>

#### Step 2 - Load generic files

The load process is written in python and executed within a lambda function.

Load is triggered by files being dropped into an S3 bucket. This process performs some basic validation (datatypes, duplicate keys, record counts)  and loads the data to a staging area within Redshift using the copy function. Once landed we call a SQL script to transform the data into the data warehouse. There will also be a dependency element to this - eg fact table data can't be built until the validation of the load files is done against a json schema stored in an S3 bucket.

This SQL scripts are also stored in an S3 bucket. The scripts contain values (primarily batch id) that will be substituted at runtime. This process will surface any db errors etc and return a known good/bad state.

#### Governor process

We need a process to handle dependencies, logging etc. Proposal is to use Hangfire as a common platform to monitor and control the workflows as it isbeing used elsewhere in the project and will ease monitoring of the final product.

<https://www.hangfire.io>


### Product File Upload

[User Story 4676](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4676)

#### Overview

Update the api to use the uploaded CSV file of product ids when calculating a scenario instead of the text box inputted list fo hierarchy ids.

Assumptions:

* UI code is complete and currently uploads a file with a GID to identify it (verify with DM)
* File storage is handled by GUID and file can be uniquely identified in storage

#### REST API

```POST /api/scenario/create```

#### REST Data Model

```
POST
{

	"VmScenarioCreate" {
	   "ScenarioName": string
	   "Week": number,
	   "ScheduleMask": number,
	   "ScheduleWeekMin": number,
	   "ScheduleWeekMax": number,
	   "ProductsFile": string
	}
}
```

#### Architecture Changes

No change

#### DB Data Model

A new table will be created to store product IDs from the uploaded file:

```
CREATE TABLE scenario_product_filter
(
  scenario_product_filter_id serial not null
		constraint pk_scenario_product_filter
			primary key,
	scenario_id INTEGER NOT NULL,
	product_id INTEGER NOT NULL,
  CONSTRAINT fk_scenario_product_filter_scenario_id FOREIGN KEY (scenario_id) REFERENCES scenario (scenario_id) ON DELETE CASCADE
)
;
```

#### High-Level Service Code Changes

Scenario Service:
	
* Add code to read from file based on unique identifier
* Modify creation of filters to use list of products from file
	
SMProduct
	
* Modify to handle list built from file instead of hierarchy (may already be implemented,  need to verify)
		
Calculate.cs - No change reqd.


### New Columns on Scenario List


[User Story 4629](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4629) -
[User Story 4630](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4630) - 
[User Story 4624](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4624) -
[User Story 4631](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4631) -
[User Story 4628](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4628) 

[User Story 4627](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4627) -
[User Story 4626](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4626) -
[User Story 4625](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4625) -
[User Story 4695](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4695) -
[User Story 4724](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4724)

#### Overview

We will expose aggregated field to the scenario list. These fields will need to be added to the scenario list API model to be consumed by the UI.

These fields are:

* % accepted recommendation
* % rejected recommendation
* % revised recommendation
* Total estimated profit
* Total estimated sales
* Average depth of markdown 
* Total markdown cost (we will use accepted cost)
* Estimated terminal Stock

#### REST API

```/api/scenario/```

#### REST Data Model

```
VmScenarioSummary {
   ...
  "productsCost": number,
  "productsAcceptedCost": number,
  "productsAcceptedCount": number,
  "productsRejectedCount": number,
  "productsRevisedCount": number,
  "productsEstimatedProfit": number,
  "productsEstimatedSales": number,
  "productsAverageDepth": number,
  "ProductsTerminalStock": number
   ...
}
```

##### Architecture Change

None

#### DB Model change

None

### Address how to look up E & Ds for products with a high markdown count

[User Story 4647](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4647)

####Overview

Following the implementation of 4587, products will have stages equal to their markdown count.
 
This may be higher than the number of stages we calculate elasticities for, in which case we will be unable to look up E & Ds (as none will be available for that stage). 
 
This ticket implements logic to bring back the E & Ds of the  highest stage available if the product is at a higher stage than is available in the data.
 
Furthermore, this ticket also allows the user to configure the highest stage to look E & Ds up from.
There is an existing scheduleStageMax parameter in the scenario table which had not been implemented. This parameter now determines what the highest stage we can look up E & Ds from.
If a product has a higher markdown count than the scheduleStageMax, we will look up the decays from the specified scheduleStageMax. This may be lower than the highest stage available in the E & D file.

####REST API

No change

####REST Data Model

SmCalcRecomendationProjection - "Elasticity": decimal
SmCalcRecomendationProjection - "Decay": decimal

####Architecture Changes

No change

####DB Data Model

RecommendationProjection – “elasticity”: decimal(34,4)
RecommendationProjection – “decay”: decimal(34,4)

####Class Diagram

None

###Stage variable used in calculation loop is incorrect

[User Story 4587](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4587)

####Overview

Elasticities are calculated for each markdown event. Each markdown event corresponds to a stage. The first markdown is stage 1 and so on and so forth. We use stage to look up which elasticity to use in the scenario calculation loop.

If a product is going into its 3rd markdown, we would look to use the elasticity for stage 3 to predict how it will behave.

Currently we are not tracking how many markdowns a product has undergone already and we starting from 1 by default. Therefore we are not picking the correct elasticity.

This user story introduces the Initial Markdown Count ie. The number of markdowns a product has undergone at the start of the scenario. It also introduces an Accumulated Markdown Count tracks the markdown count during the scenario, ie. Additional markdowns are added to the initial markdown count. Finally, we also have a Total Markdown Count ie. The number of markdowns the product has undergone by the end of the scenario period.

N.B. Markdown Count and Accumulated Markdown Count are available at projection level. Markdown Count is the count of markdowns in the scenario (not including the number of initial markdowns).

####REST API

No change

####REST Data Model

SmCalcRecomendation - "InitialMarkdownCount": Int
SmCalcRecomendation - "TotallMarkdownCount": Int
SmCalcRecomendation - "ScheduleMarkdownCount": Int –- changed from MarkdownCount
 
SmCalcRecomendationProjection - "MarkdownCount": Int
SmCalcRecomendation - "AccumulatedMarkdownCount": Int

####Architecture Changes

No change

####DB Data Model

Recommendation – schedule_markdown_count: integer
Recommendation – initial_markdown_count: integer
Recommendation – total_markdown_count: integer
RecommendationProjection – accumulated_markdown_count integer
RecommendationProjection – markdown_count integer

####Class Diagram

None

### The markdown model takes a parameter that specifies the maximum markdowns a product can have

[User Story 4726](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4726)

### REST API

VmScenario - " MarkdownCountStartWeek": integer
VmScenarioCreate - " MarkdownCountStartWeek": integer
VmScenarioSummary – “MarkdownCountStartWeek”: integer

#### REST Data Model

SmProduct - " ProductMaxMarkdown ": integer
SmProduct builder now takes a list of ProductParameterValues and not ProductScheduleMask. ProductScheduleMask lives inside ProductParameterValues now.
SmS3PathName - " ProductParameterValues ": integer
REMOVE - SmS3PathName - " ProductScheduleMask ": integer
SmScenario – “MarkdownCountStartWeek”: integer

#### Architecture Changes

No change

#### DB Data Model

Scenario – “markdown_count_start_week”: integer
NEW TABLE scenario_product_parameters – “scenario_id”: integer, “scenario_id”: integer, “product_id”: integer, “hierarchy_type”: varchar(50), “minimum_cover”: decimal(34,4), “max_markdowns”: integer

#### Class Diagram

None
	
### Scenario Edit - Stretch goal (not part of sprint)

[User Story 4638](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4638) -
[User Story 4725](https://deloitteproducts.visualstudio.com/RetailAX/_workitems/edit/4725)



	- Using the state, if a scenario has not been run, clicking on it could divert to an edit page
	- Should then be savable again - *How to make sure it overwrites instead of saving new?* - Perhaps ensure scenarioId/newScenarioId don't change so it posts to same endpoint
	- Chat to Ciaran/Matt/Zobair

	- Updating existing data - going to need to pass ID and fields that have changed to backend (to a URL called update, take ID and update exisiting) - similiar to create on the frontend
	- New ticket for new API endpoint on backend - edit/update
	- From a frontend point of view just creating a new button and firing off to new url
	

