# Authentication service
## Goals of this document

This document aims at listing potential solution for our Authentication service. This will serve as a support of discussion.

We will also document our final decision.

## Solutions considered

### Our Own AzureB2B Instance

AzureB2b is Deloitte's preferred solution. For this reason we considered this solution very seriously. The Deloitte team's preference is for us to interface with a bespoke built API, although they agreed for us to integrate using the standard microsoft API if we really needed to. We would utlimately be asked to integrate with the bespoke API; although timeframes are not confirmed and might be years away.

Having at least 2 authentication factors is a strong requirement from Deloitte's Azure team; although they could be open to that multi authentication to happen on our customers side.

Due to the MFA requirement, we won't be able to use the Deloitte's Azure instance; however nothing prevents us from setting up our own.

#### Pros

* Easy to integrate with (provided we go with the microsoft standard)
* Some support internally available
* Probably our long term goal
* Will be easier to go through internal security audit

#### Cons

* We won't be able to 

Verify we can set-up our own instance within the deloitte network

### Okta

#### Pros

* Functionality rich
* Known to the team
* We already use it

#### Cons

* most expensive solution
* risk of not being approved by internal audit team

### Cognito

#### Pros

* Within the AWS Architecture

#### Cons

* feels a little immature and a bit clumsy
* double check password rule policy
* risk of not being approved by internal audit team

### Recommendation

